---
sidebar_position: 100
---

# Viewing the Game's Code

This tutorial will guide you on how to inspect the game's code.

:::info

**Dead Cells** is written in **Haxe** and runs on the **HashLink virtual machine**, not the **.NET virtual machine**.

:::

:::tip

Before you begin, it is recommended to read the [wiki](https://github.com/HaxeFoundation/hashlink/wiki) to understand the basics of the **HashLink virtual machine**.

:::

## Using crashlink

For details, please see the [crashlink documentation](https://n3rdl0rd.github.io/crashlink/).

## Using hlbc-gui

For details, please see the [README](https://github.com/Gui-Yom/hlbc).

## Using GamePseudocode

:::warning

- **GamePseudocode** is converted from the **HashLink Bytecode** of **Dead Cells**. It is only intended for viewing the game's code flow.
- For the readability of the decompiled results, **GamePseudocode** does not have a one-to-one correspondence with **HashLink Bytecode**.
- The results from **GamePseudocode** may be incorrect. Please use it in conjunction with [crashlink](#using-crashlink) or [hlbc-gui](#using-hlbc-gui).

:::

### Modifying the Configuration File

:::tip

Configuration file location: `coremod/config/modcore.json`

This file is automatically generated after the first launch.

:::

- Open the configuration file, find `GeneratePseudocodeAssembly`, and change its value to `true`.
- Save the configuration file.

### Launching the Game

- Launch the game. The game will automatically generate the **GamePseudocode**, please be patient.
- After reaching the main menu, close the game.

### Opening the GamePseudocode

- Navigate to the `coremod/cache` directory, where you should find the `GamePseudocode.dll` file.
  - If it does not exist, please confirm that you have followed the steps correctly.
- Open `GamePseudocode.dll` with your preferred **.NET decompiler**.
  - [DnSpy](https://github.com/dnSpyEx/dnSpy) is recommended.
